here o Israel you are to cross over the
Jordan today and go in to dispossessed
nations greater and mightier than
yourself cities grained and fortified up
to Evan
of people great and tall the descendants
of anak him whom you know and of whom
you have heard it said who can stand
before the descendants of anak therefore
understand today that the Lord your God
is he who goes over before you as a
consuming fire he will destroy them and
bring them down before you so you shall
drive them out and destroy them quickly
as the Lord has said to you do not think
in your heart after the Lord your God
has cast them out before you saying
because of my righteousness the Lord has
brought me in to possess this land but
it is because of the wickedness of these
nations that the Lord is driving them
out from before you it is not because of
your righteousness or the uprightness of
your heart that you go in to possess
their land
but because of the wickedness of these
nations that the Lord your God drives
them out from before you and that he may
fulfill the word which the Lord swore to
your father's to Abraham Isaac and Jacob
therefore understand that the Lord your
God is not giving you this good land to
possess because of your righteousness
for you are a stiff-necked people
remember do not forget how you provoke
to the Lord your God to wrath in the
wilderness from the day that you
departed from the land of Egypt until
you came to this place
you have been rebellious against the
Lord also in horrid you provoked the
Lord to wrath so that the Lord was angry
enough with you to have destroyed you
when I went up into the mountain to
receive the tablets of stone the tablets
of the Covenant which the Lord made with
you then I stayed on the mountain
forty days and forty nights I neither
ate bread nor drank water and the Lord
delivered to me two tablets of stone
written with the finger of God and on
them were all the words which the Lord
had spoken to you on the mountain from
the midst of the fire in the day of the
assembly and it came to pass at the end
of forty days and forty nights that the
Lord gave me the two tablets of stone
the tablets of the Covenant and the Lord
said to eat arise go down quickly from
here for your people whom you brought
out of Egypt have acted corruptly they
have quickly turned aside from the way
which I commanded them they have made
themselves a molded image furthermore
the Lord spoke to me I have seen this
people and indeed they are a
stiff-necked people let me alone that I
may destroy them and blot out their name
from under heaven and I will make of you
a nation mighty and greater than
so I turned and came down from the
mountain and the mountain burned with
fire and the two tablets of the Covenant
were in my two hands and I looked and
behold you had sinned against the Lord
your God and made for yourselves a
molded calf you had turned aside quickly
from the way which the Lord had
commanded you then I took the two
tablets and threw them out of my two
ends and broke them before your eyes and
I fell down before the Lord as at the
first forty days and forty nights I
neither ate bread nor drank water
because of all your sin which you
committed in doing wickedly in the sight
of the Lord to provoke him to anger for
I was afraid of the anger and hot
displeasure with which the Lord was
angry with you to destroy you but the
Lord listened to me at that time also
[Music]
and the Lord was very angry with Aaron
and would have destroyed him so I prayed
for Aaron also at the same time
then I took your sin the calf which you
hadn't made and burned it with fire and
crushed it and ground it very small
until it was as fine as dust and I threw
its dust into the brook that descended
from the mountain
also at Tamara and Massa and ki broth at
a OVA you provoked the Lord to wrath
likewise when the Lord sent you from
Kadesh Barnea saying go up and possess
the land which I have given you then you
rebelled against the commandment of the
Lord your God and you did not believe
him nor obey his voice you have been
rebellious against the Lord from the day
that I knew you thus I prostrated myself
before the Lord forty days and forty
nights
I kept prostrating myself
because the Lord had said he would
destroy you
therefore I prayed to the Lord and said
O Lord God did not destroy your people
and your inheritance whom you have
redeemed through your greatness whom you
have brought out of Egypt with a mighty
hand remember your servants Abraham
Isaac and Jacob
do not look who the stubbornness of this
people or on their wickedness or their
sin lest the land from which you brought
us should say because the Lord was not
able to bring them to the land which he
promised them and because he hated them
he has brought them how to kill them in
the wilderness yet they are your people
and your inheritance you brought out by
your mighty power and by your
outstretched arm